Docs -- Content item v2 (#1683)
carbon-design-system/carbon-for-ibm-dotcom-website: src/pages/components/content-item.mdx

---
title: Content item
description:

>   The content item is a basic-level content component that is used inside a
>   content group to build web experiences on IBM dotcom pages. It can encapsulate media and text content and allow for more variation in an editorial experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The content item component is a basic-level content component that is used inside a
  content group to build web experiences on IBM.com pages. It can encapsulate media and text content and allows for more variation in an editorial experience.
```

Reviewer 2: Additional suggestion:

..."that is used inside _higher level content components_ to build web experiences..." rather than only saying content group. I like how you called out the content section and content group further down the page guidance.

| _Percentage_ | Adding a percentage to content item can highlight key data points, outcomes, and trends. These make it easier to focus attention around a product or case study. _Percentage can only be displayed in a vertically-aligned content item_.                                                                                                                                                |
| _Pictogram_  | Pictograms add visual interest to content items that help reinforce understanding about a particular topic. Pictograms excel at representing abstract ideas such as industries, technology, and functions. _Pictogram can appear in a horizontally or vertically-aligned content item_.                                                                                                  |

### Orientation

> Once a media element is added to a content item, you can select its orientation for certain media elements: either vertical or horizontal. Note that when appearing a group, each content item should have the same orientation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a media element is added to a content item, you can select its orientation for certain media elements: either vertical or horizontal. Note that when used in a group, each content item should have the same orientation.
```

<Row>

<Column colMd={4} colLg={4}>

![Content item with vertically alignment, where the pictogram appears above the heading, copy, and link](../../images/component/content-item/content-item-orientation-I.png)

> <Caption>Content item with vertically alignment</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Content item with vertical alignment</Caption>
```

</Column>

<Column colMd={4} colLg={4}>

![Content item with horizontal alignment, where the pictogram appears next to the heading, copy, and link](../../images/component/content-item/content-item-orientation-II.png)

<Caption>Content item with horizontal alignment</Caption>

</Column>

</Row>

| Variant      | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | _Vertical_   | The vertical orientation places the media addition above the heading and body copy content across all breakpoints. Vertical orientation supports all media additions for content item: Image, Pictogram, App icon, Percentage, and Logos.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Author: Yes! I didn't flesh this out enough.

I clarified in the latest that the `pictogram` version can substitute an app icon at the same size instead of the pictogram.
